You're listening to the Korea file. I'm Andre Gule, and this is a very special and very spooky episode 97. The Korea File is a monthly podcast exploring Korean society, culture, and politics and highlighting critical independent voices you won't find anywhere else. If you like the show, support it@patreon.com. Slash the Korea file on this episode. Yikes. It's kind of scary in this abandoned psychiatric hospital. It's nighttime, too. I don't like that at all. And why can't I remember anything? I'm not a thrill seeker. I'm just a podcast host. Did I get lost? Am I dreaming? How did I end up here? This is really spooky. Wait a minute. What the heck? Why? It's Joe McPherson. Hey, man, how are you? Why, hello. Great meeting you here. What? This is so crazy. So tell me, what is the founding editor of the long running food blog Zen Kimchi, and a contributor to The Wall Street Journal, the Korea Herald, Junong Daily, and National Geographic, and an expert source for The New York Times, CNN, and The Washington Post doing in this eerily abandoned gonjiang psychiatric hospital? A two hour bus ride southeast as Seoul? Would you believe it if I said I was lost? Really? You got lost, too? This is what a weird coincidence. So, like, I mean, this is spooky, right? Listen, I'm not sure if you knew this, but according to rumors, many patients in Goonjiang died under mysterious circumstances. Some even say that the director of the hospital was deranged, that he allegedly held patients hostage and was the cause of their death. It's so scary. Say, have you guys ever talked about Gun Jam Psychiatric Hospital on the dark side of Seoul podcast? We will one day. That's in our plans. Well, that that's one of those topics that's really going to take us a lot of time to do research to get it done properly. Well, you're doing your research right now. I mean, I see your little notebook out. You have oh, yeah, pen. And you're taking some notes on on how these abandoned rooms look. That that abandoned wheelchair and oh, my goodness, look at that child's toy covered in dust. It's so spooky. Well, look, I mean, with this show, the Dark Side of Soul podcast, how would you describe it? Give me the elevator pitch. Well, it is basically folktales dark history of Korea. We talk about the ghost stories as well, and sometimes some controversial things. True crime, most anything that a lot of the Korea promoters don't want us to talk about. How about that? Yeah. And what does that mean? Why don't they want you to talk about it? Because it's not the squeaky clean Kpop image that people want to sell of Korea, but I think it's the most interesting parts of Korea. That's what it tried to mean to Korea in the first place. So that like, uncanny. Like dark, dark stories of a country in history. Okay, that makes sense. Well, how long have you guys been putting the show out? How long you've been producing it? How many episodes have you released so far? Well, we should thank Coronavirus for that. We have been wanting to do a podcast for a while, but we've been so busy with our lives. It's been difficult to put anything together and try to schedule everything. And then suddenly when we start getting our shutdowns in March, my co host Sean and I, we also do the tour together. We had a little extra time in our hands and we said, well, this is a time if they need to start the podcast we've been wanting to try. So we started it. We'd been doing it weekly steadily since March. So we're in the 30s right now as far as our episodes go, 31 32 right now, which is a lot. Yeah. Well, tell me about Sean. Who's your co host? Sean has lived in Korea for 20 years. He's from Newfoundland. He's a folkloreist. He has spent most of his adult life obsessed studying Korean folklore. He also knows a lot about Korea's mountain culture. He also runs a few hiking tours and he can just talk your ear off about folklore and mountains and a lot of the spooky stuff. What I love about he has this great memory I do not have. He can remember names and dates so well. And I'm like, how can you do that? How can you do that? I'm a lay historian of Korean history, and it's hard for me to remember all the king's names. Okay, so he's got a spookily good mind for remembering stuff like that. Okay, great. So he's your sort of collaborator on the tour. Well, let's talk about that. So, yeah, the podcast builds on this popular Dark Side of Soul tour that you guys run. Tell us more about that. When did it launch? 2012 october 2012 an eight year long project. Okay. Wow your math is good oh yeah my math is amazing 2020 -2012 is eight years basically I think the elevator pitches in the title but tell me a bit more like yeah, pitch me on this. Why would I want to go what's the concept I would have Sean on the show, but he's doing a tour right now as we speak because it's 09:00 p.m. Where you're at right? So it came through a lot of things. For one thing, my attraction to Korea came from Korean history classes I took at university, which is super interesting. I describe it as Game of Thrones in Asia. It's violent and dark and full of drama and great stories. And then I come to Korea and I go to these sites that I learned about in class and the history is all sterilized. You see this building where you know, some horrible murder happened and the only thing that says on the plaque is like, how wide and how tall the building is. That's it it's like, oh, that's not interesting at all. And so I was seeing all these reviews of Korea, comments, articles about Korea, people who've traveled here. Like, there's really not that much here compared to the neighbors, China and Japan. But you don't know the history. You really don't know the history. If you got into that, you would really get it. So that was one reason I created the tour, was to convey this really interesting history that makes us such an interesting country. And also, as an American, I really missed Halloween. And there was not much back in 2012, there weren't that many things to do on Halloween. And I was the type of person back in the US. I would volunteer as an actor in haunted houses. That was my thing. I love scaring people, and I saw that. And I also love things like ghost tours, dark history tours, like Jack the Ripper tours in London. And I noticed that we didn't have anything like that in Seoul. This is like one of the only major cities in the world without any dark tourism products. And if no one else is going to do it, let's try it. I put something together, tested it out. I'm really surprised to this day that people pay me money to do this. Okay, so it's like, I do this show often in collaboration with the Royal Asiatic Society Korea branch, and they do historical walking tours. And I've also checked those out, like associated with more independent stuff from academics who just sort of like when I used to live on Jeju, who would give tours around downtown and give history and stuff. And it is so cool because it helps to anchor this sort of geographical space that we go walk around and hang out in this longer, like 100 or 1000 year old kind of like scope. So with scary stuff for people who are like total nerds about yeah, like that whole cool Halloween vibe. I totally get that. I totally see why this tour would be really fun to do and why there would be a good response. Because even a historical tour, we're walking through there and we're like, OOH, the ghosts of history, right? Not the scary ones, but like that sense of that scope of history. So, yeah, to make it spooky seems really cool, actually, to be honest. Really noble and really ambitious depth that's in it. Because it's funny that it's the most mundane buildings. It's like the mendacity of evil. You see just how this ordinary building that everyone walks by, this bridge that everyone walks over, has this bloody history to it. Really so interesting. Okay, well, let's talk about that for a minute. So let's talk a little bit about the itinerary where you take participants, don't give away too many trade secrets. But what is this bridge, for instance? This bridge is actually a dismantled tomb of a queen. And the queen's stepson dismantled her tomb because he hated her so much and scattered a lot of the stones around the country and then used a lot of stones, a lot of them upside down, built this bridge so that people would always walk on top of her grave. And people walk by it all the time and don't even know it's there. Don't even know what it is. There's some other stuff like, well, yeah, give me another couple of places. Where would you bring people? Our favorite stop tends to be gyeong. Higong, palace. It's the most haunted palace in all of Korea. And the stories that we tell, there's not that much we say about it. In fact, there's very little that we can find about it. Almost like there was some giant cover up, something really bad happened, and no one we've really been doing research on this. The only way I've been able to get some research out is one of my research methods is to get Korean historians drunk, and then they'll let out some things. We like that part because we just have so many weird incidents happen on that part of the tour. What do you mean? We've had sightings lately. Some women claim that something grabs them on their sides while they're walking through the grounds. Another cool thing is hidden off, and a lot of people don't even know it's there. It may be one of the only if the only Japanese bunker from World War II is right under your nose, no one knows it's there. Creepy. Okay. It's funny that your research strategy is to meet a historian, ask them out for whatever, chicken and beer or Macaulay, whatever. Yeah. So are they are historians I imagine historians are probably curious about, you know, exploring the more tawdry side of their trade, but they don't really get to do it in an academic context. How many drinks to be frowned upon? How many drinks in do they sort of like do you see the transition happen where they're suddenly like, yeah, you know what? I'm interested in talking about this, and in fact, I'm kind of excited. How long does it take? It's not just the drinks. It is my natural charm, sir, that brings it through. It was we were just having drinks. Every now and then I prod and I say, hey, what do you think of this? We talk about the tour and ask where I go. And then I mentioned something to tell me a little secret about places that we go to sometimes. Some of the historians actually some of the ones whose research I used in putting together the tour have actually taken the tour, and I'm nervous the whole time because they're going to, like, going, okay, this guy's full of crap. And the response has been, other than a few exaggerations, you're pretty spot on. And they added more stuff to the tour that's been really fun. A lot of trivia that I didn't even think these are just out of this world, off the wall. And I'm like, really? That's true. And this is coming from a historian. Okay. These are English language tours. I'm imagining. Do you bring a translator along? No. For a while, we did have a tour guide who was bilingual, but she's no longer with us at times. But if there were Koreans on the tour, she would do it in both languages. I would love to hire people who spoke more languages. The tough thing is it's such a complicated route and there are so many things to learn to memorize. It's really hard to hire people. Okay, cool. What is the scariest place? Like, Barnan? What's the place where you yourself always get a little shook when you're going past it and presenting it to the audience? I've just said, yeah, Yonghi Gong is the only time I've ever freaked out on the tour. You're talking to an atheist here. This was a couple of years ago. We're sitting on the steps of Junkie Gong, and this is late at night, usually around 1030. And no matter what time of year it is, no matter how the weather is, the lighting on the palace, which is not lit very well at all, all the lights have this mysterious, hazy glow. Like, you know how things look after you've been swimming in a chlorinated pool for a long time? And so it has this glow. And I like to mention on the tour that we've had a few clairvoyants who claim that there is a woman that follows us but only stands at the bottom of the stairs, won't go any further. And that evening we had a young British man who was a clairvoyant and was very nervous all the time. And he was sitting next to me, and he was taking pictures on his DSLR, and he handed the camera over to me and says, what's this? And he had taken a picture of one of the light post, lamp post, and there was an outline of a woman underneath the lamp post. Freaked me out. Yeah, that's I don't like hearing that at all. That's very scary. Okay, so I was thinking back, I was thinking about, like, where have I been in Korea? That was the most scary and sort of thinking back to, like, you know, adventuring around the country, journeying around. And I remember that probably the scariest place I went to is an abandoned amusement park, which I don't think it's Yongma land, but it could have been. I'm not sure. I don't remember. We did a whole episode on that on amusement parks. Abandoned amusement parks. I remember that it took us, like, 45 minutes to get to from Suan back when I used to live in Suan. So could that be young ma? I don't know. Okay, let's say it's YoungMA. Perhaps it wasn't that young ma. I mean, obviously an abandoned amusement park is, like, kind of creepy because it's like, cute children's, things that are old and aged, and there's something inherently creepy about that. But the scariest part of it was that there was an underground ballroom that you had to take a flight of stairs down deep into the ground. But unfortunately, this ballroom had been flooded. So the stairs had, like, green, milky water all the way up to the top, but you could still see, like, the signs, like, pointing the arrows down and stuff. So it was just imagining this entire space underneath full of water and like, what, floating chairs? I don't know, but like, just the idea of it creeped me out so much. I have this conspiracy theory that I've come up with myself. It's based on the history of the place itself. I like to believe that there's this hidden bunker underneath Soul Grand Park because the land was originally in use for nuclear warhead development, research and development by the Korean government. Okay. And then the US. Government said that's not such a great idea, so they converted that area to a park. Well, it's fun. That's fun for families and a great place to go out on a Sunday afternoon. Okay, this is all super interesting, but now let's play a scary Halloween game. Everybody loves this game. That's right. I'm talking about two minutes of terror in which share spooky stories from start to finish in just about two minutes. Okay, I'll begin. It's a kimbapchungu next to the apartment building I live in in in 2009. And every night they would shut down at at 10:00 p.m.. And I'd walk by coming home late, and I'd I'd see the lights off, but you could smell someone cooking something. And I'd walk past and I'd see like, a little light on in the back and I'd see just a pair of chopsticks and a bowl of rice. And the chopsticks are like, picking up the rice and they're like, moving the rice, but there's nobody there. I know. That's so scary, right? Wow. Okay, so that's the haunted Kimbap Chungu that still has my dreams. Well, what about you? Are you terrified right now? That's freak. I'm just trying to think of how what what happened there? I don't know. It's so scary. Okay. Okay, well, now it's your turn for for two minutes of terror. Joe. Ready? Three, two, one, go. So a group of college students decided to go mountain hiking. One summer, half of the mountain, they come across this enclosed shelter. Now, sometimes shamans moved on. They would build these shelters on the sides of mountains. And one of the girls in the group says, you know, we're really tired. I don't think I can make it all the way through the top. Can I just stay here? You guys going on ahead, and when you come down, just get me and I'll come down with you. And her friends go, okay, that's fair enough. Her boyfriend says, are you sure you're going to be okay. She goes, yeah, don't worry about me. Just go have fun. So they go and they leave her behind. After all, one of those famous summer rainstorms starts. So she goes inside that shelter and closes the door. 06:00 rose around. Her friends haven't returned. 07:00 08:00, sun starts going down. 09:00 there's a bang on the door. She opens it and her friends come in out of the rain. As she closes the door, she realizes her boyfriend's not with them. She goes, oh, my God. What happened to my boyfriend? Where is he? And he said, we're really sorry to tell you this, but we were almost to the top of the mountain when the rainstorm started. Suddenly there was a landslide and he fell off the mountain and was killed. We need to wait here until the sun comes up so we can go to the police and get them to retrieve this body. Well, naturally, the girl broke down in tears, and while her friends were consoling her, she looks up, boyfriend's face is in the window, and the boyfriend is beckoning to her. Now, in Korea, it's believed that if the ghost beckons to you, you do not follow or you will instantly die. Where the girl? She gets up, she says, walking towards the door, and her friends go, what are you doing? Are you crazy? You know what's going to happen. She says, I don't care. I love him so much, I have her say goodbye. So she goes, reaches for the door, opens it, hand grabs her, pulls her outside. No. Suddenly she's running down the mountain with the boyfriend's hand gripped tightly around her wrist. They're almost to the bottom of the mountain when she chips over this root and falls. The boyfriend goes to pick her up. She slaps his hand out of the way. Stay away from me. What's going on? The boyfriend says, we're almost to the top of the mountain when the rainstorm started. Suddenly there was a landslide. All of our friends were killed. I'm the only survivor. No, it's too scary. They were the dead ones, not the boys. I've been telling this story weekly for four years. I still get goosebumps every time I tell them totally. Oh, yeah, that is I love it. Now, that is classic Korean urban legend style story. There's usually this twist. I love that. So I think I got introduced to how good and scary Korean cinema can be, whether that's, like, trash cinema or whether it's, like, actually good real film. Because Korea does both really well. I think my introduction was in this weird anthology that came out a decade ago or more, and it was called Three Extremes in English. I don't remember the Korean title, but it was like one Korean film, one Thai film, and one Chinese film each like, a short 40 minutes thing. And the Chinese one was about, like a ghost kid and a balloon or something. And the Thai one was about, like, haunted puppets. Haunted puppets. But the Korean one was about a guy who's sitting in his, like, sort of fancy Korean skyscraper condo, and he's looking kind of, like, gloomy, but his apartment is haunted, and he's being haunted by something. And so creepy things happen, and I won't give away the twist, but when he goes down to his parking garage, he had actually left something in his own car that has now been haunting him, if you catch my drift. And it was, like, super spooky and super good. It might have been Park Chungwuk actually who directed it, but for me, that kind of introduced this world of, like, you know, frightfully good Korean cinema. So, okay, first Korean film that comes to your mind that had a big impact. That was scary. Not just like, good. Oh, that was scary. Yes, scary. Okay. Even though I do a ghost tour and all this stuff, I'm scared of scary movies. No way. I try to watch them. I'll tell you this. Last night admission last night was the first time since I was maybe three years old I sat down and watched the original Jaws all the way through. Wait a minute. Not as scary as I thought it would be. Of course not. It's a 42 year old shark movie. So you don't watch scary movies? Well, I'm not. Okay? It's hard for me to because I found that we found out through some tests that I'm extremely empathetic. Okay. And so whenever I see someone heard on screen, I feel their pain. So it's really tough for me to watch, especially slasher films. I cannot watch slasher films because it's like I relate too much to the victims. I can actually totally empathize with that myself because I don't enjoy horror like you. I enjoy the Halloween vibe, and I like spooky. I like things that scare the soul and not the stomach. I like things like Poltergeist and the Exorcist. Okay. Those are great. Even though I do like to think the John Carpenter. That's a beautifully done movie. Totally. Okay. Well, this is kind of surprising, but I totally get it on the same way. So even though I kind of want to watch more horror, I don't it creeps me out in the wrong way. But there is a fantastic probably like, one of my favorite horror films. Horror is the wrong word. It's scary. It's a film of possession. It's called The Wailing, and it's basically about a haunted village. You know what I mean? Yeah. Sean is the person you need to talk to. He's an expert on the horror films. And we did a podcast about films you should watch. Okay. And he talked about the willing quite a bit. For listeners who haven't heard this, who haven't watched this film, it's so good because it like it does that thing where it, you know, hakan cinema does a really good like, slapstick, goofy comedy thing. So there's these two, like, hapless cops, and the first 30 minutes of the film is just like, oh, these these losers don't know how to be cops in this small village. But suddenly things take a turn for the weird. And, like, an hour later, you're like, oh, my God, this village is possessed by some sort of devil. And it's a wonderfully slow burn, just like like beautifully realized kind of film, but, like, the right kind of scary, the right kind of fear and more, just like a slow boil as opposed to the sort of stuff that makes you and I go, no, thank you. I'm too creeped out by this violence and gore and vulgarity. So the whaling highly recommended. Whaling for me, of parasite, of course. Parasite. They say it's half madcap thriller and half horror movie. Sometimes society is the scariest thing of all. I was so proud to see Bong Junho just become not overnight sensation, but suddenly to have him become the darling of Hollywood, the toast of Tinseltown. Yeah, he's such a rad guy. I love him. Okay. Something else that is extremely popular and extremely rad is The Dark Side of Soul comic book. Yeah. First of all, is this, like, a proper physical thing? Is this a web comic? What is the dark side of soul? Comic book. They're actual printed comics. Oh, cool. So how did that come about? The tour to the podcast? I get did the comic book come before the podcast? Comic book? Yeah. Comic book was in the works for a year before we started the podcast. It's another one of those projects that we just wanted to we thought the tour was a good start, but we feel like this could really work in other media. And Sean is a big horror comic book fan. So 2019, early 2019, do you remember that year? We ran a Kickstarter, and it quickly raised the money to start to make the comic book. It took us a long time. Sean wrote the script. We had this great Korean Canadian artist, Tim Bauer in Canada do the artwork, and when you see the artwork, you see why it took so long. It was beautifully done, and we released it officially in August of 2020. And it's been doing okay. It's been doing well. We have the printed version. We also have electronic versions because for right now, because of the Coronavirus, we can't really mail the comics outside of Korea by regular mail. We have to do it really by expensive mail, which really is not worth it for that right now. We just got approved. I think by the time your podcast comes out, we will be on comixology, which is Amazon dot com's, comics arm, and a great place for people to access comics digitally and to get them on their tablets. Yeah, right. So it'll be the premiere is on October. It's tomorrow. What a spooky coincidence. It's tomorrow. Oh, wow. Okay. So it will be out. It's available on comicsology. If you're not inside Korea. If you're inside Korea, we have physical versions that we can mail out to you, and we also sell them on our tours if you join our tour. So if I pick this comic up, if I read it on digitally on a tablet or pick it up from you guys in person, what am I going to find? How does it recreate the vibe of the tour? Or like, this whole sense of is it just an anthology of, like, dark stories, right? It's an anthology of three dark stories that we don't even say on the we don't even do on the tour. They're separate from the tour, but it's within the frame of the tour. We have a fictional tour guide, and it's the framing device. And there's a little twist at the end with that regarding the tour. A fictional tour guide that's sort of like the Crypt Keeper style. Exactly. Oh, nice. It's exactly like that. That presents the tales. And this is getting me because I was just the producer for this. Sean was the writer, and he wrote all the details. Tim was the artist. But as the producer, I've had to digitize it and make sure everything was formatted perfectly for the digital version and everything. So while I'm doing that, I have to go through each page closely in Photoshop and over every time I was editing a page, I'd find something new, some little Easter egg in every single frame. It's in there. It's one of those comments. You just got to do it over and over and over again to find all this hidden stuff in there. So there are three folktales. They can be a little bloody. A lot of them have the twist. It's really fun. It's really fun. Awesome. I love that Sean went for the concept of the Crypt Keeper, which, if for people don't know, it's going to be some sort of someone to sort of frame the narrative with, like, welcome Boyles and Ghouls to another scary episode of The Dark Side of Soul. That would make it so fun. I love that kind of EC horror style comic book. So that sounds really cool. Direct descendant of that. It is a direct descendant of that. People, again, can find that on comicsology. Beginning and tomorrow, October 21, and also in person from Joe and Sean. If you see them around in Seoul. This is honestly kind of a spooky coincidence because I was doing some research, and I discovered there's actually another Joe McPherson in Seoul who hosts another podcast called The Seoul Podcast. So you must have run into this guy over the course of your many years in Korea. So what was that like, bumping into this dude? I mean, what are the odds, right? Well, I should know. It's me. What? Unbelievable. Okay. Whoa. Staggering. I didn't know that. Okay. Interesting. So then you in fact, have been producing and releasing the Soul podcast since 2012. This is a long running show. 2008? 2008. Yeah. But it's been off and on. It's been off and on. And I would say Coronavirus helped me revive the show a bit. Oh, yeah. Okay. So you're kind of taking a hiatus, a long hiatus because my co host scattered to the four winds. You're a producer. It's hard to keep it all going all by yourself. Oh, totally. Yeah. So I usually need help. Collaboration is also important for finding energy and stuff like that. Okay, so you went away for a while and recently came back, but it has been a thing that has existed for a dozen years. So okay, first of all, what is the show today? How would you describe that? Really quick. So podcast now is Emma Kalka and I and Emma is the editor of Groove magazine and she also works at a news station, which she doesn't like me to reveal what news station it is. And we go over the news in Korea and little commentary, and every now and then we interview people just like you do kind of interview based show, also with someone who's grounded in news and kind of like looking at the world that way and having conversations about what's occurred that week, what's been going on. Right. And sometimes we do something like a Daily Show format where we just do the comedy news. We did that. It would just get sometimes. We've done so many things over the years. Way back in the day, we even did musical numbers. Okay, that's cool. That's really cool. I respect the hell of that. That's awesome. I love that. If more people want to get involved with the Soul podcast, that'd be great. Oh, cool. Okay. How could people reach out to you about that Soulpodcast.com? The email is Sejong because King Sejong is our announcer. That's sejong at? Yes. Solpodcast.com. Okay, good. Yeah. So people really should reach out to Joe if they want to get involved because finding collaborators and finding people who are into the same things we do is often a challenge. And so like okay, that's awesome. So then how was the show different before the hiatus? It was much longer format. That was more of a panel show, the Talking head show. Like you would find almost like a Bill Mar type of thing. What I planted after is this podcast called Twitt This Week in Tech, where you just get experts in different or just not even experts, just people have stuff to say in different parts and we just put them together. We have a subject and we just discussed it. We had funny little bits all the time, like drink of the week or time wasters of the week. We were talking about weird websites when you're stuck at work, stuff that affects foreigners and things that make you go which is all the weird news in Korea, which is most of the show is all about the weird news in Korea. That's awesome. I've been thinking a lot lately about how we make content, right, and how we perform and put out stuff for people. This show, The Korea File, is very much a one on one interview show. And my work that I do in Canadian politics, podcasting, same thing. I always just like, interview one, maybe two people. Occasionally I've experimented with more weird stuff or like people will have heard at the beginning of this episode, kind of like a scripted bit or something. And I enjoy doing that, but I'm actually I'm producing a show right now and they ended up being so ambitious, it's insane. It's a French podcast. Okay. Because, I mean, it's these two public intellectuals who are just sort of like university profs, and they are doing a panel show on the American election. So in French, this show is called Le Pence de Vash, which means it's a Quebec idiom for the grassroots. And so it's sort of like a left perspective on American politics and what's going on. And so when we started this third season, I was like, okay, this is cool. This is nice. I've enjoyed doing the show. But then the hosts took it to the next level. They now have a humorist coming on every episode to do a three minute comedy bit explaining one esoteric aspect of American electoral politics. Like the Electoral College, for instance. They have the former co host who now lives in the far north of Quebec come on, zoom and do a segment talking about the veteran vote or whatever. And then this last episode, they had these two other academics, these two women come on to discuss their area of expertise, which is the far right and extremism in American politics. So suddenly I'm producing a show with six different guests, all these moving parts completely in French. It was insane. But also but each segment, they're doing their own stuff. They're writing their own. Okay. I'm just piecing the puzzle together afterwards. That's still tough because I used to be coincidence? I used to be a producer for left wing talk radio in America. Oh, really? Yeah, like Bernie Sanders would call my house. It was stuff like that. Oh, wow. So you know what it's like to put that stuff together. What was the organizing it all organizing it all was so rough. Was it was Tom Hartman program? Yeah. Okay. And for listeners who don't know, this is one of these sort of older leftists who's been kind of talking the same talk for a couple of decades, at least in American radio and backing your era when you would have been living in the States, like 1520 years ago, I'm assuming. Yeah, bernie Sanders would have been the sort of little known senator from Vermont. He was no one back then. So much that every Friday we just made a segment called Brunch with Bernie. He would just be on the show every Friday. That's awesome. That's cool. Yeah, that's really cool. Producing is a whole thing. And I guess my point is just hearing about how you came back to the Soul podcast after hiatus and began to re explore how to do it, this is cool. We have the potential to do so many different and interesting things with this format. So it is really exciting and yeah, that's awesome. So doing a musical episode makes a ton of sense. Let's touch on a final thing before we wrap up, which is just for the listeners who are more familiar with your work coordinating the Zen Kimchi empire. But I've kind of heard about like I've heard of Zen Kimchi a million times, but I haven't lived in Korea in nine years. For people who don't really know what it is, how would you sort of sum it up? It was Korea's first food blog, and it just branched out into we were kind of the first of English, especially English language source for Korean food. And I would say we're primarily a blog website, but we're not more like the modern blogs right now. We're kind of old school in a sense these days. I only write when I can do really good long form pieces rather than doing, hey, I like this Kimchi over here. There's not really much of that anymore, but also have YouTube channel. And what else have you been doing? I'm mostly behind the scenes as a consultant these days, so you don't really see Zin Kimchi itself in the foreground where kind of if you've read a piece in The New York Times or if you watched a TV show where they traveled to Korea and tried the food, usually I was behind the scenes helping them put that together. Sort of a culinary fixer. I get that. Yeah. Okay. And obviously this is the maybe less pulse pounding or chilling aspect of your career. The dark Side of Soul is definitely probably more fun. It's fun. But if people want to find out more about Zen Kimji, if for some reason they haven't heard about it, check it out online and that's really cool. Is there any kind of fun spooky plans that you have for Zen Kimchi going forward in 2021? Right now? No, I'm just keeping it up. I was thinking of doing Reviving the Zen Kimchi podcast, but I got too much on my plate right now, so to speak. Yeah, there are a few things. I mean, I did have an app, and I just recently put the app on hiatus, but in the future I like to revive it and make it a really good restaurant guide app. I know there are lots of them already out there, but not many of them are very useful for me. I want to find something that's useful for the people that visit Korea or live here. When I was doing some research for this piece, the Smart Local is a website, the smartlocal.com that had haunted places in Korea. So I was, like, scrolling through, and it was kind of rough because it's like, Jju Island is very spooky. And then it's like, here's the explanation of the historical massacre that happened in the it's like, that's not scary. That's just like, really like sad history. So I get the connection between Sad History, but anyway, tell us. A little exploitive. But I clicked through on the theme park that we had talked about before, and it took me to the page that is called ten Places to Visit in Seoul that will give you major Reply 1988 feels. What if you know Reply 1988? It's a period piece that happens in that year in Seoul, and it's sort of like a high school dramedy. It's great. Awesome. They click through to the piece, and one of the places they have is Geldoki Salgok Mun. And it's this place sort of just off Jungno, that general area. That's an outside barbecue place. And it was like, my favorite place back when I lived in Seoul. It's just on his corner, and you get to sit outside. All the outside places are gone. Oh, because of the pandemic? No, it's just a lot of city ordinances all around Korea just said you can't have these all in the sidewalks anymore. A lot of them are just gone. Yeah. Bummer. Anyway, keep going. Okay, well, I'm going to then have my memory of how cool that was. Okay, last question then would be what is either the spookiest restaurant that you've ever visited in Korea or what is the spookiest dish that you've ever eaten? Spookiest dish? Now, that might be a little, I don't know, spookiest restaurant, though. Okay. I think spooky, though, I'm thinking of more like something with good character. Yeah, totally. Good vibe to it. No, there's one I do on my barbecue tour. It's near Gongdong Station, and the bottom level is a market that sells Jun pan, pancakes, and chigum fried things. And it's just a big variety of stuff. It's such a variety. I say, like, if you leave your phone there, they'll fry it. You won't believe it. Sounds disgusting. I wouldn't want to try that delicious there. I love it. Okay. But what I like about it is if you didn't know it was there, you would miss it. There's a pub upstairs that's connected to the market, but you have to go behind the counter where they're cooking the stuff to get there. So there's like a secret stairway behind the counter to get to the pub. The pub itself has done, like, a classic country style Jumac. And from my experience, any place that has this kitschy bricker bracket tends to be good to have good food, good drink. And this is my favorite. It's kind of spooky little hang out, because one thing gets hidden. Most visitors will not. Most people don't know it's there. Even though it's packed, most people don't know it's there. It just has this vibe to it that feels like you really are in a different country, you're in a very different place. It feels like there is a lot of history there that's just walls caked in grease and people just drinking lots and lots of makai and soju and lots of pancakes. You just lose yourself. And what I love about this place, too, is the variety of people that are there. People from all walks of life are there, all congregating and having a raucous time. Really fun. And I would say that's kind of spooky, maybe camaraderie and the egalitarianism of a good, excellent BrickaBrack kitschy filled with the atmosphere. So cool is the truly spookiest kind of place. The other places that used to be in one of my tours, but they recently moved. But the new location still has a good vibe. It's called daknada flying chicken. And it's one thing amazing chicken, it's not fried chicken, it's this Jordan. It's this sizzling spicy boneless chicken that smothered in cheese. It's delicious. And the owner collects real World War II antiques memorabilia, and so the entire restaurant is just covered. It looks like a World War II bunker. And you can order beers out of real canteen cups from American GI's from World War Two. And that place is spooky not only because of the bricker brick, but the playlist the owner plays. It's unlike anything you find in Korea. Like what? It's psychedelic? Depends on when you come in. It's either like psychedelic era Beatles with a little bit of Prince, lots of depression mode, a little bit of ambient music. When you get in there, you zone out and you really feel like you're in another period of time. The suspended part. You feel like you're at the restaurant at the end of the universe or you're in a Doctor Who episode because it's like you're in this place that looks like you're in World War II but you're listening to the surreal Depesh Mode while eating the sizzling spicy Korean chicken, drinking weak beer out of a military canteen cup from World War II. That sounds so rad. And Korea last thing to wrap up. And what you just said made me think of this. Okay, my most traumatic TV, film, media, whatever thing that scared me so badly when I was a kid was the Doctor Who Feed me. So it was oh, yeah, it would it would come on. That would be added on our, like, provincial public access network, whatever, like the NPR of Ontario. And so whenever we come on, like, you know, when I was six or seven, I would be absolutely gutted every time, like cowering on the couch because the Doctor Who Feed song is super spooky. And I must have seen some episode with those freaky Daleks who are like, daleks they just kill people, like their robots, like, they don't care. They just, like, totally fry them. So for you, what was the sort of kid trauma of the scariest media that you accidentally consumed and then it like, had? Oh, I could tell you that right away because the music is a therapy they use for the doctor. Who. The Exorcist I saw when I was three years old is the exercise. How old? Three years old. Three years old. That's a little young, to be honest. It's a little young for the existence. I love The Exorcist, and I love Tubular Bells, which is the music that's used in The Exorcist. I love it. Joe McPhee is the founding editor of long running food blogs and Kimchi, and contributor to The Wall Street Journal, the Korea Herald, Jung Daily, National Geographic, and an expert source for The New York Times, CNN, and The Washington Post, and the co host of The Dark Side of Soul podcast. And the Soul podcast. Joe, it's been really cool to run into you unexpectedly here at Gonjiang Psychiatric Hospital. I'm really happy and survived. And happy Halloween. You too, Andre. And that's episode 97 of The Korea File. Check out what we're doing with the indie media nonprofit Harbinger Media Network. I'm the executive director. We're a community of 20 plus politically left podcasts in English and French. We're launching in early November. I'm really excited about what we're doing. So if you like the kind of work that I do here at The Korea File, I think you will be. To find out more about our fight to amplify independent left voices in the mainstream and challenge corporate media@harbingermedianetwork.com, you can follow me on Twitter. Andre Margulite support from listeners like you is really appreciated, and even a dollar a month helps keep the show on the air, become a monthly patron@patreon.com, slash the Koreafold. Thanks. I'll be back in early December with the next in a series of collaborative episodes with the soul based Korea branch of history and culture organization, the Royal Asiatic Society. Until then, take care, you guys. I'm Andre Gule. Thanks for listening.